The study will have three stages:

First stage.
In this stage, 

In this stage, our goal is to evaluate the usability of our tool on guided visualization reproduction tasks within a laboratory experimental environment. Participants will be brought to the experiment space (a meeting room at LISN). The researcher will begin by explaining the purpose and steps of the study, confirming that the participant agrees to have the session audio recorded. She will then present the consent form to the participants, giving them a chance to read it, ask clarifications about it, and if they agree to sign it.

After signing the consent form, participants will be requested to fill out a short demographic survey (gender, age group, education level, occupation, and experience working with data). Then, they will be provided with a pen tablet (hooked up to a computer) and given some time to familiarize with it. The experimenter (Anna Offenwanger) will introduce the system (Web interface) and present a guided tutorial explaining its key features.

After this training session, the participants can optionally take a short 3 to 5-minute break. Then, they will be provided with a pre-formatted dataset and the image of a series of target visualizations. They will be requested to reproduce those visualizations (as closely as possible), using the tools of the system. The participants will be also told that given enough time, they can further beautify the visualizations, annotate them, or explore variations. They will be encouraged to think aloud while interacting with the system. This is a common methodological approach that allows the investigators to capture the mental model of their participants, identify difficulties as they use the system, and understand their strategies. For these tasks, the experimenter will activate the audio recording, screen recording, and system-event recording. She will also observe the participant’s actions and will take notes.

After participants have completed the tasks, the researcher will ask them questions about the actions they have performed and any interactions that are of interest (places where they appeared to struggle, places where they used a feature in an unexpected way, etc).

Finally, the participants will be given a chance to ask any remaining questions, and provided with information in case they are interested in participating in the second stage. Overall, each session is expected to last 50 - 70 minutes.

Second stage.
The goal of the second stage is to evaluate the flexibility and expressive power of the tool with a smaller number of participants who are willing to spend additional time with our system. Participants are expected to dedicate 2-3 hours (4 maximum) to this study at their convenience. They will use the system from a location of their own choice (e.g., from home) and will receive a compensation of €15/hour (€15 to €60 in total depending on their time commitment).

Participants will be minimally required to have a computer with a functioning mouse or an iPad with a pen (iPad with touch is insufficient). If they have access to a drawing tablet, we will request them to use the drawing tablet. The device will have to have Chrome installed, as the system is designed to run in Chrome.

As a first step, participants will be requested to join a half-hour meeting (online or in person at LISN) with the experimenter (Anna Offenwanger). The experimenter will explain the purpose of the study, and request the participants to sign a consent form and fill out a demographic survey (gender, age group, education level, occupation, and experience working with data). Participants who did not take part in the first study will also be given a tutorial on the system. The participant will finally be shown how to retrieve and review the system logs that they will be requested to send to the researcher. To use the Web application, the participants will be given its URL (for remote meetings, the URL will be sent by email or through the chat of the video communication software). The experimenter will inform the participants that they can end the study at any moment without penalty.

Each participant will be provided with a set of predefined datasets for which time is the key dimension (on, for example, a period in history, a scientific phenomenon like the development of a wind funnel, the events from a novel, etc), and instructed, after the meeting is finished to choose one of these datasets. Alternatively, the participants will be free to supplement the datasets or choose their own dataset. We will explicitly ask them to exclude any proprietary datasets or datasets with sensitive information (that is, data revealing their racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade-union membership, genetic or health-related data, and non-public data concerning a person’s sex life or sexual orientation).

The participants will be given a week to use our system and produce at least one visualization of the dataset of their choice. They will be encouraged to be as creative as possible and explore several variations. However, we will ask them not to exceed 3 hours of work. When they are finished, they will be requested to send a copy of the visualization to the experimenter, and also send the system analytics logs (the log will contain the mouse move, click events, and intermediate states of the visualization, all from the system use). The analytics system will use Chrome events, so will only be able to collect data from the interaction with the system. No information about the user's system will be collected. The experimenter will invite the participants to send the files through Inria's FileSender (RENATER) service.

After sending the visualization and logs, the participant will be asked to take part in another 0.5 hour interview. The experimenter will review the visualization and logs, and use those as the basis to discuss the participants' experience with using the system. The experimenter will first confirm that the participant agrees to be audio recorded before before starting audio recording. She will then ask about the participant's experience. She will identify areas that might have been difficult for the user and will ask the participant to elaborate on how the system supported or hindered the creative process.

Although the two meetings with the experimen